---
layout: post
title: "Quarantine Habits"
date: 2020-05-24
---
I love this quote by Jame Clear: </p><figure id="51b1511b-cdfe-4384-b4b8-f6fb8250d52a"><div class="source"><a href="https://twitter.com/jamesclear/status/1047643455722283009?lang=en">https://twitter.com/jamesclear/status/1047643455722283009?lang=en</a></div></figure><p id="7152b587-f098-4080-893d-334456b83ef2" class="">
As we are settling into this new socially isolated and distanced norm, we are consciously or unconsciously setting up some new systems. In essence, we have a chance to reset our systems or to redevelop those which have been lost in time. What habits and system have you added to your life since you&#x27;ve been in lock down? I did <em>misplace</em> quite a few habits during quarantine (workouts **ahem), but I&#x27;ve managed to start a few positive ones. </p><p id="51ca06a2-a74f-47fc-940f-6ee437ec8d8b" class="">To begin, I&#x27;ve been working to implement mobility as part of my morning routine, as this is something that has been on my list for quite some time. I now can confidently say that practicing my mobility has become as habitual as brushing my teeth in the morning. I usually only do this for about five minutes and my body is thanking me! I&#x27;ve been tracking this using my Garmin watch and I have successfully completed this for 38 out of the last 62 days in quarantine. This has been far more productive than my last mobility attempts. I&#x27;ve been doing a combination of two different, quick mobility routines from this guy on <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCU0DZhN-8KFLYO6beSaYljg">YouTube</a>.  And maybe this goes without saying, but if I have a particularly tight neck or hamstring, I make sure to pay extra close attention to that.  </p><p id="f1c4183f-f50c-4e42-9df3-9e9e21e5aeed" class="">Another routine that I&#x27;m reevaluating is my shower frequency. To preface, I have <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anosmia">anosmia </a>- smell blindness - so I&#x27;m already a little paranoid about <em>how</em> I smell most of the time. But to be honest, before quarantine I was showering up to 3 times a day some days! I would shower in the morning before work, after my workout, and then if I did anything outdoors after work, I would shower again before bed. The showering before bed is almost a non-negotiable - I DO NOT like to go to bed dirty 🙅‍♂️ </p><p id="4f9362ea-895a-4302-a7cc-b74fdd855434" class="">All that being said, I&#x27;ve found, at the minimum, I can skip the showering before work part. I used to rely on it to help wake me up, which now I know can be remedied with proper rest and a proper morning ritual. The other reason I showered in the morning was because I had bed head. Well turns out, I had never heard of a comb before. So my new routine going forward, if I haven&#x27;t worked out in the morning, is to simply wet my hair with a spray bottle and comb it. It ends up looking the exact same. Bonus benefit - I save water, shampoo, and time 😊
