<html><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/><title>Vegetarian for a Month</title><style>
/* webkit printing magic: print all background colors */
html {
	-webkit-print-color-adjust: exact;
}
* {
	box-sizing: border-box;
	-webkit-print-color-adjust: exact;
}

html,
body {
	margin: 0;
	padding: 0;
}
@media only screen {
	body {
		margin: 2em auto;
		max-width: 900px;
		color: rgb(55, 53, 47);
	}
}

body {
	line-height: 1.5;
	white-space: pre-wrap;
}

a,
a.visited {
	color: inherit;
	text-decoration: underline;
}

.pdf-relative-link-path {
	font-size: 80%;
	color: #444;
}

h1,
h2,
h3 {
	letter-spacing: -0.01em;
	line-height: 1.2;
	font-weight: 600;
	margin-bottom: 0;
}

.page-title {
	font-size: 2.5rem;
	font-weight: 700;
	margin-top: 0;
	margin-bottom: 0.75em;
}

h1 {
	font-size: 1.875rem;
	margin-top: 1.875rem;
}

h2 {
	font-size: 1.5rem;
	margin-top: 1.5rem;
}

h3 {
	font-size: 1.25rem;
	margin-top: 1.25rem;
}

.source {
	border: 1px solid #ddd;
	border-radius: 3px;
	padding: 1.5em;
	word-break: break-all;
}

.callout {
	border-radius: 3px;
	padding: 1rem;
}

figure {
	margin: 1.25em 0;
	page-break-inside: avoid;
}

figcaption {
	opacity: 0.5;
	font-size: 85%;
	margin-top: 0.5em;
}

mark {
	background-color: transparent;
}

.indented {
	padding-left: 1.5em;
}

hr {
	background: transparent;
	display: block;
	width: 100%;
	height: 1px;
	visibility: visible;
	border: none;
	border-bottom: 1px solid rgba(55, 53, 47, 0.09);
}

img {
	max-width: 100%;
}

@media only print {
	img {
		max-height: 100vh;
		object-fit: contain;
	}
}

@page {
	margin: 1in;
}

.collection-content {
	font-size: 0.875rem;
}

.column-list {
	display: flex;
	justify-content: space-between;
}

.column {
	padding: 0 1em;
}

.column:first-child {
	padding-left: 0;
}

.column:last-child {
	padding-right: 0;
}

.table_of_contents-item {
	display: block;
	font-size: 0.875rem;
	line-height: 1.3;
	padding: 0.125rem;
}

.table_of_contents-indent-1 {
	margin-left: 1.5rem;
}

.table_of_contents-indent-2 {
	margin-left: 3rem;
}

.table_of_contents-indent-3 {
	margin-left: 4.5rem;
}

.table_of_contents-link {
	text-decoration: none;
	opacity: 0.7;
	border-bottom: 1px solid rgba(55, 53, 47, 0.18);
}

table,
th,
td {
	border: 1px solid rgba(55, 53, 47, 0.09);
	border-collapse: collapse;
}

table {
	border-left: none;
	border-right: none;
}

th,
td {
	font-weight: normal;
	padding: 0.25em 0.5em;
	line-height: 1.5;
	min-height: 1.5em;
	text-align: left;
}

th {
	color: rgba(55, 53, 47, 0.6);
}

ol,
ul {
	margin: 0;
	margin-block-start: 0.6em;
	margin-block-end: 0.6em;
}

li > ol:first-child,
li > ul:first-child {
	margin-block-start: 0.6em;
}

ul > li {
	list-style: disc;
}

ul.to-do-list {
	text-indent: -1.7em;
}

ul.to-do-list > li {
	list-style: none;
}

.to-do-children-checked {
	text-decoration: line-through;
	opacity: 0.375;
}

ul.toggle > li {
	list-style: none;
}

ul {
	padding-inline-start: 1.7em;
}

ul > li {
	padding-left: 0.1em;
}

ol {
	padding-inline-start: 1.6em;
}

ol > li {
	padding-left: 0.2em;
}

.mono ol {
	padding-inline-start: 2em;
}

.mono ol > li {
	text-indent: -0.4em;
}

.toggle {
	padding-inline-start: 0em;
	list-style-type: none;
}

/* Indent toggle children */
.toggle > li > details {
	padding-left: 1.7em;
}

.toggle > li > details > summary {
	margin-left: -1.1em;
}

.selected-value {
	display: inline-block;
	padding: 0 0.5em;
	background: rgba(206, 205, 202, 0.5);
	border-radius: 3px;
	margin-right: 0.5em;
	margin-top: 0.3em;
	margin-bottom: 0.3em;
	white-space: nowrap;
}

.collection-title {
	display: inline-block;
	margin-right: 1em;
}

time {
	opacity: 0.5;
}

.icon {
	display: inline-block;
	max-width: 1.2em;
	max-height: 1.2em;
	text-decoration: none;
	vertical-align: text-bottom;
	margin-right: 0.5em;
}

img.icon {
	border-radius: 3px;
}

.user-icon {
	width: 1.5em;
	height: 1.5em;
	border-radius: 100%;
	margin-right: 0.5rem;
}

.user-icon-inner {
	font-size: 0.8em;
}

.text-icon {
	border: 1px solid #000;
	text-align: center;
}

.page-cover-image {
	display: block;
	object-fit: cover;
	width: 100%;
	height: 30vh;
}

.page-header-icon {
	font-size: 3rem;
	margin-bottom: 1rem;
}

.page-header-icon-with-cover {
	margin-top: -0.72em;
	margin-left: 0.07em;
}

.page-header-icon img {
	border-radius: 3px;
}

.link-to-page {
	margin: 1em 0;
	padding: 0;
	border: none;
	font-weight: 500;
}

p > .user {
	opacity: 0.5;
}

td > .user,
td > time {
	white-space: nowrap;
}

input[type="checkbox"] {
	transform: scale(1.5);
	margin-right: 0.6em;
	vertical-align: middle;
}

p {
	margin-top: 0.5em;
	margin-bottom: 0.5em;
}

.image {
	border: none;
	margin: 1.5em 0;
	padding: 0;
	border-radius: 0;
	text-align: center;
}

.code,
code {
	background: rgba(135, 131, 120, 0.15);
	border-radius: 3px;
	padding: 0.2em 0.4em;
	border-radius: 3px;
	font-size: 85%;
	tab-size: 2;
}

code {
	color: #eb5757;
}

.code {
	padding: 1.5em 1em;
}

.code > code {
	background: none;
	padding: 0;
	font-size: 100%;
	color: inherit;
}

blockquote {
	font-size: 1.25em;
	margin: 1em 0;
	padding-left: 1em;
	border-left: 3px solid rgb(55, 53, 47);
}

.bookmark-href {
	font-size: 0.75em;
	opacity: 0.5;
}

.sans { font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Helvetica, "Apple Color Emoji", Arial, sans-serif, "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol"; }
.code { font-family: 'SFMono-Regular', Consolas, 'Liberation Mono', Menlo, Courier, monospace; }
.serif { font-family: Lyon-Text, Georgia, KaiTi, STKaiTi, '华文楷体', KaiTi_GB2312, '楷体_GB2312', serif; }
.mono { font-family: Nitti, 'Microsoft YaHei', '微软雅黑', monospace; }
.pdf .sans { font-family: Inter, -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Helvetica, "Apple Color Emoji", Arial, sans-serif, "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol", 'Twemoji', 'Noto Color Emoji', 'Noto Sans CJK SC', 'Noto Sans CJK KR'; }

.pdf .code { font-family: Source Code Pro, 'SFMono-Regular', Consolas, 'Liberation Mono', Menlo, Courier, monospace, 'Twemoji', 'Noto Color Emoji', 'Noto Sans Mono CJK SC', 'Noto Sans Mono CJK KR'; }

.pdf .serif { font-family: PT Serif, Lyon-Text, Georgia, KaiTi, STKaiTi, '华文楷体', KaiTi_GB2312, '楷体_GB2312', serif, 'Twemoji', 'Noto Color Emoji', 'Noto Sans CJK SC', 'Noto Sans CJK KR'; }

.pdf .mono { font-family: PT Mono, Nitti, 'Microsoft YaHei', '微软雅黑', monospace, 'Twemoji', 'Noto Color Emoji', 'Noto Sans Mono CJK SC', 'Noto Sans Mono CJK KR'; }

.highlight-default {
}
.highlight-gray {
	color: rgb(155,154,151);
}
.highlight-brown {
	color: rgb(100,71,58);
}
.highlight-orange {
	color: rgb(217,115,13);
}
.highlight-yellow {
	color: rgb(223,171,1);
}
.highlight-teal {
	color: rgb(15,123,108);
}
.highlight-blue {
	color: rgb(11,110,153);
}
.highlight-purple {
	color: rgb(105,64,165);
}
.highlight-pink {
	color: rgb(173,26,114);
}
.highlight-red {
	color: rgb(224,62,62);
}
.highlight-gray_background {
	background: rgb(235,236,237);
}
.highlight-brown_background {
	background: rgb(233,229,227);
}
.highlight-orange_background {
	background: rgb(250,235,221);
}
.highlight-yellow_background {
	background: rgb(251,243,219);
}
.highlight-teal_background {
	background: rgb(221,237,234);
}
.highlight-blue_background {
	background: rgb(221,235,241);
}
.highlight-purple_background {
	background: rgb(234,228,242);
}
.highlight-pink_background {
	background: rgb(244,223,235);
}
.highlight-red_background {
	background: rgb(251,228,228);
}
.block-color-default {
	color: inherit;
	fill: inherit;
}
.block-color-gray {
	color: rgba(55, 53, 47, 0.6);
	fill: rgba(55, 53, 47, 0.6);
}
.block-color-brown {
	color: rgb(100,71,58);
	fill: rgb(100,71,58);
}
.block-color-orange {
	color: rgb(217,115,13);
	fill: rgb(217,115,13);
}
.block-color-yellow {
	color: rgb(223,171,1);
	fill: rgb(223,171,1);
}
.block-color-teal {
	color: rgb(15,123,108);
	fill: rgb(15,123,108);
}
.block-color-blue {
	color: rgb(11,110,153);
	fill: rgb(11,110,153);
}
.block-color-purple {
	color: rgb(105,64,165);
	fill: rgb(105,64,165);
}
.block-color-pink {
	color: rgb(173,26,114);
	fill: rgb(173,26,114);
}
.block-color-red {
	color: rgb(224,62,62);
	fill: rgb(224,62,62);
}
.block-color-gray_background {
	background: rgb(235,236,237);
}
.block-color-brown_background {
	background: rgb(233,229,227);
}
.block-color-orange_background {
	background: rgb(250,235,221);
}
.block-color-yellow_background {
	background: rgb(251,243,219);
}
.block-color-teal_background {
	background: rgb(221,237,234);
}
.block-color-blue_background {
	background: rgb(221,235,241);
}
.block-color-purple_background {
	background: rgb(234,228,242);
}
.block-color-pink_background {
	background: rgb(244,223,235);
}
.block-color-red_background {
	background: rgb(251,228,228);
}

.checkbox {
	display: inline-flex;
	vertical-align: text-bottom;
	width: 16;
	height: 16;
	background-size: 16px;
	margin-left: 2px;
	margin-right: 5px;
}

.checkbox-on {
	background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml;charset=UTF-8,%3Csvg%20width%3D%2216%22%20height%3D%2216%22%20viewBox%3D%220%200%2016%2016%22%20fill%3D%22none%22%20xmlns%3D%22http%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2000%2Fsvg%22%3E%0A%3Crect%20width%3D%2216%22%20height%3D%2216%22%20fill%3D%22%2358A9D7%22%2F%3E%0A%3Cpath%20d%3D%22M6.71429%2012.2852L14%204.9995L12.7143%203.71436L6.71429%209.71378L3.28571%206.2831L2%207.57092L6.71429%2012.2852Z%22%20fill%3D%22white%22%2F%3E%0A%3C%2Fsvg%3E");
}

.checkbox-off {
	background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml;charset=UTF-8,%3Csvg%20width%3D%2216%22%20height%3D%2216%22%20viewBox%3D%220%200%2016%2016%22%20fill%3D%22none%22%20xmlns%3D%22http%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2000%2Fsvg%22%3E%0A%3Crect%20x%3D%220.75%22%20y%3D%220.75%22%20width%3D%2214.5%22%20height%3D%2214.5%22%20fill%3D%22white%22%20stroke%3D%22%2336352F%22%20stroke-width%3D%221.5%22%2F%3E%0A%3C%2Fsvg%3E");
}

</style></head><body><article id="6f43b87c-473a-48f0-8b46-fa823cb1914f" class="page sans"><header><div class="page-header-icon undefined"><span class="icon">🥕</span></div><h1 class="page-title">Vegetarian for a Month</h1><table class="properties"><tbody><tr class="property-row property-row-multi_select"><th>Category</th><td><span class="selected-value">Health</span><span class="selected-value">Personal Finance</span></td></tr><tr class="property-row property-row-created_time"><th>Created</th><td><time>@Jan 13, 2020 5:04 PM</time></td></tr><tr class="property-row property-row-date"><th>Finished</th><td></td></tr><tr class="property-row property-row-select"><th>Status</th><td><span class="selected-value">Reviewing</span></td></tr></tbody></table></header><div class="page-body"><h1 id="a79c6455-077e-426b-a76a-3d4d7d34953b" class="">Why </h1><p id="2543acb2-5780-449f-9aab-e3e86fd9c1e4" class="">So I decided to go vegetarian for the month of January. I thought this would be a cool challenge for 2 main reasons. </p><ol id="ea832a5e-9c6d-43ce-a48c-52a10bcaa875" class="numbered-list" start="1"><li>Financial. It has been largely recognized that vegetarian is one of the cheapest ways to eat sustainably (think rice and beans). When you look at the average dinner plate today, your largest driving cost of that plate is the meat. There are a variety of articles and data to support this, but it just makes sense if you ever have looked at your grocery bill. <p id="b3578843-ae81-4af5-8537-27cd94949da0" class="">Additionally, I was pairing this challenge with Liz from Frugalwoods&#x27; <a href="https://www.frugalwoods.com/category/uberfrugalmonth/">30 Day Uber Frugal Challenge</a>. The goal of this challenge, in tandem with this diet change, was to really strip back my spending to nothing but the essentials. My thoughts for after this challenge is that I could use this month as a reference point when I was trying to figure out how much life would cost if I was to really lean things out (more on the idea behind this <a href="https://www.1500days.com/are-you-leanfire-fatfire-or-fartfire/">here</a>)</p></li></ol><ol id="87b7296d-6977-455c-be03-4b8e2d695f4f" class="numbered-list" start="2"><li>Health. I wanted to see how my body felt and responded to this. Did I feel more alert? more energetic? lethargic? better poops? More pleasant body odor? I didn&#x27;t really plan on tracking this part of the challenge very objectively, I was just going to take it as a lump sum analysis during and after. </li></ol><h1 id="84fcd91a-61da-46fc-9fd2-d402bd3c0c2f" class="">By the Numbers</h1><p id="d6592446-2cd0-4328-a35a-397ad9c6d7ec" class="">So I won&#x27;t dive into the details of the full uber frugal challenge, but I will dive into my total grocery bill for the month, and let me say: I was quite happy about the results! </p><p id="64c8ea1a-7598-4635-8f4c-9d9185990aca" class="">Overall, I ended up spending $160.97 on groceries for the <strong>entire month</strong>. And that was with a meal that was prepped that carried me through the beginning of February! So I would say it was relatively accurate. A few things to note about that number: </p><ul id="203e37a8-402b-4b00-9e12-331223dcaae4" class="bulleted-list"><li>I am excluding groceries that I spent on my birthday party. I made a bunch of food for a taco bar and kind of kaboshed my whole vegetarian thing for the night</li></ul><ul id="45c9e7a9-0419-4423-a01a-8d06a618bb2c" class="bulleted-list"><li>That number also does not include my restaurants, which totaled about 150 dollars, but these expenses were only a handful of meals for the month and they were because of friends and family being in town, so I will gladly spend it. </li></ul><ul id="2652bb07-8b88-4363-8b15-b9658be43c0b" class="bulleted-list"><li>I also used a handful of things that I already had in stock like rice and a few nut butters. Let&#x27;s say conservatively I used an extra $10 on food that I already had available. </li></ul><p id="bb5ace0f-fa7f-4d2a-918b-0ebcf1a5c71f" class="">So what the heck did I eat? Well adjusting for cooking around a vegetarian diet was kind of challenging. I&#x27;m used to picking a meat source and then planning my meals around that. But here is the full list of everything that I ate (or meal prepped) for the month. Also, I have a style of meal prep that probably isn&#x27;t best suited for everyone, but it works for me. I basically only cook 2 large meals a week, usually on the weekends. So each week will have about 2 meals/recipes on it. </p><p id="07ddc293-b447-4563-8237-54d24c78323f" class=""><strong>Week 1 </strong></p><ul id="127642a8-8e9e-4f68-8e54-28d824ff1fda" class="bulleted-list"><li><a href="https://www.budgetbytes.com/vegan-winter-lentil-stew/">Vegan Winter Lentil Stew</a>* </li></ul><ul id="688ec3e6-1ac5-4959-8398-25f42ba1de49" class="bulleted-list"><li><a href="https://www.budgetbytes.com/poor-mans-burrito-bowls/">Poor Man&#x27;s Burrito Bowls</a></li></ul><p id="7c8bd656-687c-41b3-b296-93e18e35780d" class=""><strong>Week 2</strong></p><ul id="9dea1b4e-0172-416f-91d7-2ff7195820bb" class="bulleted-list"><li><a href="https://itdoesnttastelikechicken.com/sweet-korean-lentils/">Sweet Korean Lentils</a> (served over rice)</li></ul><ul id="3c22270d-8e20-497e-b3f6-dac3c73f9bf6" class="bulleted-list"><li><a href="https://minimalistbaker.com/sweet-potato-chickpea-buddha-bowl/">Sweet Potato Chickpea Buddha Bowl</a>*</li></ul><p id="2925dace-3cb4-463c-8b77-08871f9af2ed" class=""><strong>Week 3</strong></p><ul id="92544102-27f4-44df-9000-8f0bae1744a4" class="bulleted-list"><li><a href="https://www.acouplecooks.com/smoky-instant-pot-lentils-and-rice-pressure-cooker/">Instant Pot Lentil Taco Bowls</a></li></ul><p id="e12aca47-a190-4c42-aaeb-00f562215535" class=""><strong>Week 4</strong></p><ul id="62a929b6-997f-4d7e-bd22-e27f18829eed" class="bulleted-list"><li><a href="https://www.budgetbytes.com/vegetable-not-fried-rice/#wprm-recipe-container-33695">Fried Rice</a></li></ul><ul id="2b4f0c91-d1be-48d3-b145-d3bd0bcd4d62" class="bulleted-list"><li>Breakfast Bowls. Freestyled this. It was a combination of eggs, beans, sweet potatoes, avocados, spinach and mushrooms. </li></ul><p id="030d56be-5d27-4c4b-8dd5-97617faae7e5" class=""><strong>Snacks</strong></p><ul id="a8b9f29e-2ac5-4f01-ac44-07ee3a231a30" class="bulleted-list"><li>snacks almost exclusive consisted of mixed nuts or nut butters </li></ul><p id="e59c6986-7407-48ce-8faa-fdfd6fc3594a" class="">*indicates that I really liked this recipe and will be making it again in the future. </p><p id="42d118c6-57d9-4542-9315-e581ee2a4e01" class="">So how does this compare to my normal spending? Well last year (2019), my average monthly grocery bill was around $300 and my average restaurant bill was about $140 for a grand total of $440 per month of food. So looking at the numbers I posted above, my total came out to be approximately $310 for  total monthly cost savings of over $100! I think I could easily cut that down a little more if there hadn&#x27;t been so many celebrations to pay for. If we look at the grocery to grocery comparison, that is where a ton of savings came into play and I saved over $140 per month in groceries. I&#x27;m sure that number would go up slightly if I didn&#x27;t go out to eat as often as I did, so let&#x27;s call it just under half as much as a normal month. </p><p id="53080eef-00f3-449f-a053-ea21d7352d61" class="">Just for consideration, $140 per month in savings for the full year will equate to over $1,500 back in my pocket! I like the sound of that. </p><h1 id="4a36b9ea-b443-45c8-a2a2-7ba7c301c8bb" class="">What I learned</h1><p id="d7d62f51-bc11-4aca-addb-1d116dcbcdbc" class="">Overall I think it was a very eye opening experience. I&#x27;ve never had to think about my meals in that way and I have a new appreciation for vegans and vegetarians. </p><p id="536e4a1e-5767-4007-a597-7043cb410758" class="">I absolutely love the financial aspect of this, as I just noted above, the numbers don&#x27;t lie, this is definitely a cost effective way to eat. </p><p id="80e4d4af-383b-4946-8225-d77ce2478b76" class="">From a health perspective, I really felt no ill health effects. My weight remained relatively stable and my energy was solid throughout the day. My method was just to eat when I was hungry (weird concept right?). That being said, I wouldn&#x27;t say I was doing any extreme physical feats during this time, but I think for general health and well being, this seems like a totally fine diet.</p><h1 id="ff7f3f9e-dba3-46ce-a305-5a241822ea4e" class="">Going Forward</h1><p id="2bd3dc5e-7380-45e5-8350-9549021ff35c" class="">With all that I&#x27;ve learned and gleaned here, I think I&#x27;m going to be carrying vegetarianism forward throughout the rest of my life. I don&#x27;t think I will do it for every meal, but I can definitely see myself doing it for 1 or 2 meals a week for sure. Overall this was a really cool and fun challenge, helped my wallet and potentially my waistline! </p><p id="d2255ad1-fa58-4da1-979c-dfa9657c00d2" class="">From another perspective, there is also the environmental impacts that I kind of forgot about. According to <a href="https://vegetariancalculator.com/">this</a> calculator, by going vegan for approximately an entire month I did not eat 17 animals, I saved 134 lbs of CO2 and saved 16 lbs of meat! That&#x27;s pretty neat! ♻🌎</p><p id="eaaa4b40-9a28-4951-a074-245d3893b493" class="">
</p></div></article></body></html>
